Welcome to another sidebar in this sidebar.
I want to take the time to talk about the rest and Sprint operators.
These are two new features in E6.
You'll see them used often in Gutenberg.
We're going to step away from our project for a moment to focus solely on these concepts.
I'm in a different rectory with a file called index dot J.S. in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a zip file with this code.
Download it and unzip the contents the index file is pretty straightforward.
I'm creating a function called ad where it will console dot log any numbers past in the ad function
doesn't accept in any parameters.
Instead it'll use the arguments object the arguments object will contain all the values passed in including
the ones that weren't specified in the parameters.
We're using this by looping through all the values passed in and adding them all together.
This makes our function flexible.
If you look below we can choose not to provide any parameters or up to three.
It's limitless.
The first call should result in zero.
The second call should result in 1 and the last call should result in 6.
Let's test the sound inside your command line C.D. into the directory and run the command node index
as expected.
We get the numbers 0 1 and 6 output.
We can clean this function up even further.
At first glance the arguments object can be used like an array.
However that's not completely the case.
I'm going to remove a lot of this code except for the console statement.
Then I'll paste in some code really quickly.
All right this time I'm using the reduced function to loop through the array of values.
This will accept an anonymous function which we passed in the values that are being looped through the
purpose of this function is to loop through all the values and then return one single value.
The function has two parameters.
The first is the total.
The second is the current number in the iteration.
In this example we're simply adding number to the total after every number has been looped through the
total will be returned.
Let's try this out.
Input the command node index.
This time will receive an error.
We get this error because the reduced function doesn't exist.
The reduced function is only available for arrays the arguments value we have here is not a true array.
We can access the values like arrays but a lot of the functions that come with arrays are unavailable.
It's not the end of the world because there are different ways to loop through values but it would be
nice if we could use the array functions.
This is where the rest operator comes in to play.
What is the rest.
Operator The rest operator allows you to create a variable that will be an array inside your function
inside the functions parameters create a parameter called numbers.
We want this variable to contain all the values a user passes onto the function to do that.
We'll need to add three dots right before the variable name like so now we can replace the arguments
keyword with the numbers variable like some this function will work.
But there is one change we'll have to make below.
We can't call this function with no values like we're doing here.
We'll have to remove this first call as it'll throw an error.
Once you have it removed.
Go ahead and run the node index command.
You should see the numbers appear like before.
This is great.
Our function is now cleaner and easier to read.
Now let's say you wanted to have some fixed parameters while also allowing this to be limitless.
That's totally possible inside the parameters.
I'm going to create a parameter called message when using the rest.
OPERATOR It must be the last one in the set of parameters all your fixed parameters must come first.
In this example I'm saying that the first value passed in should be set to message while all other values
will be for the numbers parameters.
I'm going to long the message variable before the numbers we're going to need to update our first call
again this time.
I'm going to pass in Hello.
What do you think the result will be.
Take a moment to think about this.
All right.
Let's see.
Input the command node index what we'll end up seeing is hello.
1 1 5 for the first call it used Hello.
As the message and one as the number two at the second call.
Use one as the message and added two and three together.
So that's the rest operator.
It allows you to create a parameter in your function that will take in an unlimited number of values
in your function and assign it as an array.
Let's look at the spread operator now.
I'm going to comment about this code we have as we no longer need it next.
I'm going to paste in some code just to save some time.
All right.
All I'm doing here is creating two arrays in the first rate.
I have two numbers which are two and three.
The second array contains the numbers 1 4 and 5.
I want to put the numbers in array 1 into array to this way we'll only have to deal with one array.
You may come across these situations where you'll want to merge arrays together.
Traditionally you would loop through the array and then push the values into the array with the Sprint
operator you no longer have to do that inside the second to Ray.
I'm adding the first array with the spread operator just like last time I'm using three dots.
The spread operator merges two arrays together the array that has the spread operator applied to it
will be the one that gets merged into the other array.
And this example array one is merged with array to array two will be the array with all the values combined.
Let's see if this is true inside the command line run the command node index both the RAZR longed array
one contains the numbers 2 and 3 array 2 contains the numbers it originally had while also containing
the numbers 2 and 3.
The great thing about the spread operator is that you can specify where you want to place your numbers.
You could place the numbers in the beginning end or anywhere in between.
At this point you may be thinking aren't the spread and rest operators the same thing.
Well they're definitely written the same but they're completely different.
If you use the three dots inside a function's parameter then it's called a rest.
Operator The rest operator will combine all values together into an array.
The spread operator does the opposite which is spread the values out any time you use the three dots
outside of a functions parameters.
It will be considered the spread operator.
Now that we understand that the next question is how does this apply to our code.
Well let's look at Gutenberg code for a moment.
I want you to go into the text control component directory for a moment.
Open the index dot J.S. file.
There are two places where the rest and spread operators are used inside the parameter of the function.
You'll see the prompts variable uses a rest operator that prompts variable will contain all the attributes
that are passed onto the component that aren't already defined.
This would basically be any custom attributes we set we are allowed to do that.
We're not forced into just using the attributes this component uses.
If we want to add any extra attributes then we can then if you look inside the input element you'll
see that the spread operator is used to spread all the attributes.
This is how WordPress handles custom attributes.
Let's try this one out.
If you have two positive videos you can switch back to the main project right now I'm looking at the
first text control component which is used for our ingredients.
I'm going to add an attribute called foo set to Hello I'll add another attribute called Hello set to
foo lastly C.D. into the blocks directory and run the NPM run def command
if we did everything right then we should be able to see these two attributes appear inside our input
field go ahead and refresh the recipe post select the recipe block and inspect the ingredients input
field just like that.
Our custom attributes are appearing without a problem they don't really do anything but it's nice to
know we can add them if we ever need to.
I'm going to undo these changes as they aren't practical components in Gutenberg are flexible.
Most components allow you to create custom attributes.
If you ever need that kind of power just to be sure.
I encourage you to check out the code yourself.
You'll see a formatted in the same way I showed you.
Don't ever be afraid to mess around with your code either.
It's how you'll learn and become comfortable with the tools provided.